zkGCN: Zero-Knowledge Proofs of Inference for
Graph Convolutional Networks ∗
Hongfa Ding1,2*, Linjiang Wu1 , Yingxuan Luo1 , Heling Jiang1
1

Information School, Guizhou University of Finance and Economics,
Guiyang, 550025, Guizhou, China.
2
Guizhou Zhonghui Technology Development Co., Ltd, Guiyang,
550000, Guiyang, China.

*Corresponding author(s). E-mail(s): hfding@mail.gufe.edu.cn;
Abstract
In recent years, Graph Neural Networks (GNN) (e.g. Graph Convolutional
Networks, GCN) as an emerging learning model, have shown outstanding performance in tasks involving graph data, and deployed in many machine learning and
application platforms. Although their applications have achieved some success,
current GNN MLaaS platforms lack verifiable capability to ensure the integrity
of the inference procedure. Consequently, users cannot confirm whether the inference results they received are correct or not, nor can they confirm whether these
results are generated by the specific model they paid for or not. To address these
issues, we propose zkGCN, the first zero-knowledge proof-based integrity verification scheme for the GCN inference procedure. This scheme can verify the integrity
of the GCN inference procedure in GNN MLaaS scenarios without exposing the
private parameter information, thereby ensuring that the inference results are
the output of a legitimate model. In this scheme, zk-SNARK is employed to construct zero-knowledge proofs of the GCN inference process, and we construct
rank-1 constraint satisfaction based on the computational logic of each hidden
layer in the inference procedure of the model, and then design proof circuits.
To validate the effectiveness of our approach, we performed graph classification
experiments with GCN models over three benchmark datasets, demonstrating
both the practicality and the feasibility of the proposed scheme.
Keywords: Graph Neural Network, Graph Convolutional Networks, Machine
Learning as a Service, Zero-Knowledge, zk-SNARK, Verifiable Inference.
∗

This study was funded by the Natural Science Researching Program of D. o. E. of Guizhou
(grant number: Qian Edu. & Tech.[2023]065) and the Innovation Exploration and Academic
New Seed Project of GUFE (grant number: 2024XSXMB11).

1

1 Introduction
With the rapid development of artificial intelligence and big data analytics technologies, GNN (e.g. GCN) as an emerging deep learning model has demonstrated excellent
performance in tasks involving graph structured data. GNN models have also gradually become commercial MLaaS. Many MLaaS platforms provided by cloud service
providers have integrated GCN development tools to facilitate the launch of GCN
services. Users only need to utilize the application programming interfaces (APIs) provided by the cloud platform and pay relevant fees to directly access pre-trained GCN
models. Although model deployment is convenient and cost-effective, the integrity[1, 2]
of the graph learning-based MLaaS inference procedure lacks verifiable capabilities.
Consequently, users cannot confirm whether the inference results they receive originate
from the specific model they paid for or whether the inference results of the paid model
are accurate. Users still do not know the internal structure, algorithms, parameters,
and other confidential details of the GCN model hosted on the MLaaS platform when
using inference services. Dishonest providers might provide substandard services, such
as providing predictions from simplified models to defraud users. To verify whether
the GCN model provided by the cloud service provider offers genuine services, the
model owner needs to disclose internal privacy parameters. However, this method risks
exposing key model parameters. Therefore, it is crucial to provide integrity assurance
for inference services without leaking model privacy parameters. Certain protection
schemes for graph learning models [3–5] can detect integrity attacks and safeguard
model intellectual property to enhance security, but do not meet the requirements
of MLaaS scenarios where both cloud service providers and clients demand balanced
trust, privacy and verifiable integrity[6, 7].
To this end, we propose zkGCN, the first Zero-Knowledge Proof (ZKP)-based
scheme to verify the integrity of the GCN inference procedure. Without exposing the
private parameter information of the GCN model, our scheme verifies that the inference procedure strictly adheres to the given input, operates under the specified model
architecture, and follows the predefined computational procedures, thereby ensuring
the trustworthiness of the final inference results. This indirectly demonstrates the
credibility of both the inference outcomes and the model providing the service. ZKP
guarantees that if the prover sends an incorrect computation result, it can only be
correctly verified with negligible probability. The cloud provider computes the model
inference procedure and uses zk-SNARK to construct a ZKP of the model inference
procedure without revealing private information such as model parameters during the
integrity proof. Furthermore, the client can use the proof to verify the integrity of
the inferred result of the model. Verification of the ZKP system will fail if the model
parameters are changed or the model structure is modified. The main contributions
of this paper are as follows.
1. We propose zkGCN, the first zk-SNARK-based scheme to verify the integrity
of the GCN inference procedure. This scheme strategically adopts the zero-knowledge
property of zk-SNARK and the protection of model private parameters, which can
smoothly solve the integrity verification of the model and prevent the leakage of model
parameters.

2

2. We propose an algorithm for extracting the computational logic of the internal
layers of the GCN model and converting them into the Rank-1 Constraint Satisfaction
(R1CS) required by the ZKP circuit.
3. We implement and comprehensively evaluate zkGCN over the GCN model with
different public datasets. Experimental results show that the proposed scheme has a
relatively manageable time overhead and an attractive advantage in terms of proof
size.

2 Related Work
In this section, we will review and analyze related work on verifiable DNN and GNN.
These works include integrity verification schemes for both DNN inference and DNN
training phases and privacy-preserving GNN schemes.

2.1 Integrity Verification of DNN
To address fraudulent services and privacy concerns in MLaaS, recent research has
explored methods to verify the integrity and ownership of DNN models deployed on
MLaaS platforms during the inference phase. He et al. [8] propose a protection mechanism for DNN models in MLaaS based on sensitive sample fingerprints. It requires
more sophisticated fingerprint computation algorithms to generate sensitive samples
and cannot fully guarantee the detection of all potential model integrity breaches.
VCNN[9] is a verifiable convolutional neural network framework based on zk-SNARKs.
The computational resources required to generate proofs are still high, especially
when dealing with large-scale models. ZkCNN[10] can predict the accuracy of CNN
models while protecting the privacy of the model parameters. However, it relies on
integer quantization, which can affect model accuracy and increase implementation
complexity.
There is also research exploring the integrity verification of the training procedure of DNNs. Kasra et al. proposed a zkPoT system named KAIZEN[11]. KAIZEN
achieves integrity verification of the DNN training procedure by combining optimized
proofs for gradient descent with recursive composition techniques. VeriML[12] leverages SNARKs on randomly selected iterations of the ML training procedure to achieve
efficiency and tunable probabilistic guarantees. However, it lacks strong assurances
in areas such as service correctness, trustworthy billing, and fair payment. zkDL[13]
introduces zkReLU, which designs specialized proofs for the ReLU activation function
and its backpropagation in deep neural networks. It also introduces a novel arithmetic
circuit design called FAC4DNN to simulate the entire training procedure.

2.2 GNN Models Privacy-Preserving
Some works focus on the privacy issues during the GNN model training procedure. Iyiola [14] proposes PrivGnn, which is a privacy-preserving framework for
publishing GNN models with differential privacy guarantees. Xu[5] introduces a
privacy-preserving GNN named MDP, which allows external calculators to train GNN
models without knowing the original data. SecGNN[15] is a system that combines

3

additive secret sharing with machine learning techniques to design encrypted data
structures and secure protocols, enabling privacy-preserving GNN training and inference services in the cloud. Wu et al. [3] proposed a query-based verification technique,
complemented by an innovative node fingerprint generation algorithm, introducing a
random fingerprint node method to protect GNN models in MLaaS from model-centric
attacks, thus safeguarding the integrity of the models.

3 Preliminaries
In this section, to make the proposed zkGCN easier to understand, we briefly introduce
some basic concepts.

3.1 Graph Convolutional Networks
The GCN procedure can be formalized as follows. Given a graph G = (V, E ) with
node features H ∈ RN ×D , where N is the number of nodes and D is the number of
features per node, a graph convolution operation can be defined as
1

1

H (l+1) = σ (D̃− 2 ÃD̃− 2 H (l) W (l) + b),

(1)

where H (l) is the feature matrix at layer l, W (l) is the learnable weight matrix at
layer l, Ã = A + IN is the adjacency matrix A with self-loops added (where IN is the
identity matrix), D̃ is the diagonal degree matrix of Ã, b is an optional bias term. σ
is a non-linear activation function, typically ReLU.

3.2 zk-SNARKs
zk-SNARK [16] enables efficient verification of computational integrity with three
key properties: Zero-knowledge, No information about the witness w is revealed.
Succinctness, Constant-sized proofs. Non-interactivity, Single-round verification
requiring only public inputs. For a computational statement A with secret witness w
and public input x, the protocol operates as follows:
1. Arithmetic Circuit and R1CS: Decompose the computation into basic arithmetic operations (e.g., f (x) = x3 + x + 5). Represent these as a R1CS: s · qi =
(s · oi ) · (s · di ),where s = (1, x, w) is the full variable vector, and oi , di , qi are
coefficient matrices.
2. QAP Transformation: Convert R1CS to Quadratic Arithmetic Program
(QAP) by Lagrange interpolation. Let p(x) = q (xQ
) − o(x) · d(x). Verification
m
reduces to checking: p(x) = h(x) ·z (x), where z (x) = i=1 (x−xi ) is the vanishing
polynomial.
3. Groth16 Protocol[17]: Setup, Generate keys (P K, V K ) ← G(C, 1λ ). Prove,
Compute proof π ← P (P K, w, x). Verify, Check V (V K, x, π ) ∈ {0, 1}. G denotes
the setup phase of the proof system for generating public parameters P K and
V K , and the P , V represent the provers and verifiers. The P and V engage in
a non-interactive protocol, where the prover convinces the verifier of the validity
of a statement without revealing the actual witness w.
4

4 The Proposed zkGCN Scheme
In this section, we first present the overview of our zkGCN scheme, and then present
the specific details of zkGCN.

4.1 Overview of zkGCN

Fig. 1: Overview of the zkGCN.

In the GCN MLaaS scenario, the prover (cloud service provider) has a pre-trained
GCN model that remains confidential. The verifier (user) requests inference services
from the prover with some input data. The prover needs to demonstrate to the verifier
(user) that a complete inference process was executed using this underlying GCN
model on the user’s input data, thereby yielding an authentic and correct inferred
result. To meet this requirement, we assume that the model architecture is known to
the verifier and propose the zkGCN scheme to provide integrity verification of the GCN
inference procedure. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first such ZKP-based
scheme for GCN inference. The workflow of zkGCN is illustrated in Fig. 1.
In Fig. 1, there are four core components and five steps. 1) After publishing the
GCN model M by the prover, the verifier queries the inference service for a specific
data sample D. 2) The prover extracts matrix information M I (includes public primary
input sta and the witness w, where, sta represents the public input, including the input
and output of the first layer, the input of the second layer, etc., while w denotes the

5

private parameters, such as model weights, biases, and other confidential components.)
from each layer’s computation logic CAL in the GCN inference process, translates
CAL into simple arithmetic expression and arithmetic circuits C , constructs R1CS
based on C , and finally converts R1CS into an arithmetic QAP polynomial. 3) The
prover generates keys P K (for proof generation) and V K (for verification) based on
the circuit size. 4) The verifier generates an integrity proof piusing C , sta, w, and
P K based on the Gorth16 system and sends it to the verifier. If it is the final layer,
the inferred result Y is also sent to the verifier. 5) The verifier verifies the integrity of
all layer using P K and π . Once all the layers are verified, the verifier considers Y to
be the legitimate output of the model.

4.2 Details of zkGCN
4.2.1 Preparation for the Construction of R1CS
We extracted the information about computation procedure of each layer in the GCN
model. Then, the computational logic of the corresponding layers is converted into simple arithmetic expressions(SAE ). and then transform them into R1CS. NP-complete
statement R1CS can be used to describe the logical computation of polynomial
problems, preparing for the implementation of the zk-SNARK proof scheme.
Due to the lack of support for floating-point arithmetic operations in ZKP’s backend, it is necessary to handle floating-point numbers that arise during the model
inference process, we use the fixed-point decimal representation from Ref.[18]. We
represent the floating-point numbers in the computation information with an integertype fraction matrix. Specifically, we select an integer k as a correction parameter,
multiply each element of the original floating-point matrix by 2k to convert it into an
integer, forming the numerator matrix. The elements in the denominator matrix are
all coefficients 2k . This conversion process introduces a potential loss of precision in
the original floating-point matrix, with the accuracy range of the loss being [0,2k−1 ].
By selecting an appropriate k , the accuracy loss can be controlled within a range that
does not affect validation.
GCN Convolutional Layer: As can be seen from Eq. 1, by performing symmetric
1
1
normalization on the adjacency matrix Â = (D̃− 2 ÃD̃− 2 ), the normalized adjacency
matrix is multiplied with the current layer’s feature matrix H l , aggregating the feature
information of neighboring nodes to obtain Conv Input N orm. To verify the integrity
of the GCN convolution layer, we use the normalized and aggregated node feature data
Conv Input N orm, the weight matrix Conv weight, the bias term Conv bias, and
the output of the convolution function Conv output to represent the logical calculation
of the convolutional layer. It can be expressed by the following formula:

Conv Input N orm · Conv weight + Conv bias = Conv output

(2)

We use Alg. 1 to transform the computational procedure of the convolutional layer
(matrix multiplication) into SAE and further construct the R1CS.
GCN Activation Function Layer: We take the Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU)
as an example, transforming the computational logic of the activation layer into a

6

Algorithm 1 GCNCONV-layer conversion Matrix Multiplication to R1CS
Input: Params: GCNCONV-layer(H l , weight, bias, output)
Transform: conv input N orm = Â · H l
Output: R1CS
1: {conv input N orm.csv, conv weight.csv,
conv bias.csv, conv output.csv} ←
Params
2: {conv input N orm[n][m], conv weight[m][p], conv bias[p], conv output[m][p]} ←
Read *. csv
3: for i = 0 to n − 1, j = 0 to p − 1
4:
Construct SAE (i,j)
5:
RICS ← SAEij
6: end for
7: function Construct SAE(i, j )
8:
Initialize a two-dimensional array Sym[n × p][m + 1]
9:
sum row = 0
10:
for m = 0 to m − 1
11:
Sym[p ∗ i + j ][m] ← conv input[i][m] ∗
conv weight[j ][m]
12:
sum row ← sum row + Sym[p ∗ i + j ][m]
13:
end for
14:
Sym[p · i + j ][m] ← sum row + conv bias[j ]
15:
Flatten GCNCONV-layer Matrix multiplication
16:
return SAEij
17: end function
simple arithmetic expression. The upper section of Fig. 2 details the simple arithmetic
expression of the ReLU activation layer. ReLU can be represented f (x) = max(0, x),
where x is the output value from the previous layer. To express the computational
logic of the ReLU activation layer, we construct an ReLU operation matrix, the
shape is same input matrix (ReLU input). When the elements of the input matrix to
the activation layer are greater than zero, the corresponding values in the operation
matrix are set to 1, and to 0 otherwise. Finally, by performing the Hadamard product
between the ReLU input matrix and the operation matrix, we obtain the output of
the ReLU layer (ReLU output). In this way, the ReLU function is transformed into
a form similar to matrix multiplication. This can be represented by the formula as

ReLU input ◦ ReLU operation = ReLU output.

(3)

GCN Global Average Pooling Layer: To transform the computational logic of
global mean pooling into matrix operations, we multiply a unit vector GM P operation
of dimension equal to the number of nodes with the GM P input matrix. The resulting
GM P output represents exactly the computational logic of the global pooling operation. The construction of a simple arithmetic expression is analogous to Alg. 1, except
it is formulated as the multiplication of a matrix and a vector. This can be represented

7

Fig. 2: Simple arithmetic expressions for the ReLU layer and the Softmax layer.
by the formula as follows:

GM P operation · GM P input = GM P output

(4)

GCN Fully Connected layer: In our model, the Fully-Connected Layer serves
as a ”classifier”. Typically, one or more Fully-Connected Layers follow the graph
convolutional layers to perform task-related transformations and predictions on the
nodes’ high-order structural representations. Specifically, the computation in each fully
connected layer is as follows:
F c input · F c W eight + F c bais = F c output

(5)

where F c input represents the output matrix of the nodes after the ReLU layer, with
each row being a node’s feature vector, F c W eight is the weight matrix, and F c bais
is the bias vector. We extract the F c input, F c W eight, F c bais, and F c output data
8

from the fully connected layer and construct our simple arithmetic expression based
on the upper part of Fig. 2, preparing for the R1CS.

4.3 The zk-SNARK Process of zkGCN
The zk-SNARK process include the reminding three components of zk-GCN, namely
setup, proof generation, and verification phases.
1. Setup phase: The computational logic to be verified is first compiled into arithmetic circuits and R1CS, and then converted into QAP polynomials A(t)B (t) −
C (t) = 0. Generate public parameters CRS including P K, V K using the
coefficients Ai (t) and Bi (t) of the QAP polynomial. It can be expressed as
(P arrowG(C, 1 lambda) . Grepresents a function that generates common parameters P K and V K .
2. Proof generation phase: Based on P K and input data, the
Qd prover calculates
polynomials P (t) and h(t), where h(t) = P (t)/z (t), z (t) = k=1 (t − τk ), τk are
randomly sampled points, d is the Polynomial degree. The prover encrypts P (s)
and h(s) using the parameters in P K and generates a proof π . Can be represented
as π ← P (P K, w, sta), where w is witness and sta is public input.
3. Verification phase: The verifier uses a public reference string (V K ) and proof
π to verify the correctness of the calculation. Firstly, the verifier receives public
input, proof π and V K , and then calculates the encrypted form of the objective polynomials t(s) and P (s). Finally, Verify that a following bilinear pairing
equations hold. Can be represented as V (V K, sta, π ) ∈ {0, 1}. Please refer to
zk-snarks[16] for the specific implementation process.

5 Theoretical Analysis
We will prove the security of zkGCN, and compare zkGCN with other related schemes
theoretically in this section.

5.1 Security Analysis
The security of zkGCN can be proved based on the three fundamental properties (i.e.
completeness, soundness, and zero-knowledge) of ZKP, and as Theorem 1.

Theorem 1. If the three properties are satisfied, the proposed zkGCN is considered
to fulfill the properties of a ZKP.
Proof Completeness. For any input from the verifier (user), if the prover correctly extracts
the relevant matrix data information of the internal computational logic at each layer during
the GCN inference, and generates an integrity proof using the arithmetic circuit and the
public security parameter P K, then the verifier will always obtain a verification result of 1
via V K, π, and the public input.

9


 Pr[(P K, V K) ← GCNlayer. KeyGen(C, 1λ )
π ← P rove(P K, w, sta)

V erif y(V K, sta, π) = 1] = 1

(6)

Soundness. For any probabilistic polynomial-time (PPT) malicious adversary algorithm,
the probability


(P K, V K) ← GCNlayer. KeyGen(1λ )

 ∗

π ← A(C, P K)

(7)
Pr 


∗ ∗

V. Verify(sta , π , V K) = 1
∃sta ∈ M I, sta∗ ̸= sta sta∗ ∈ M I∗
holds is negligible, where M I is the matrix data extracted at the layer, sta is the public
primary input and A denotes the adversary.
Zero-knowledge. Let there exist simulators S1 , S2 , and PPT algorithms A1 , A2 . Here,
pp is the security parameter, sta denotes public input, w denotes private input (witness),
and GCN layer represents a layer in the GCN model. Consider the two experiments in
Table 1, a scheme is said to satisfy the zero-knowledge property if the difference in output probabilities between the real experiment (EXPreal (pp)) and the simulated experiment
(EXPsimulator (pp)) is negligible. Formally, this is
|Pr [EXPreal (pp) = 1] − Pr [EXPsimulator (pp) = 1]| ≤ negl(λ).

(8)
□

Table 1: Comparison of Different Experiments
EXPreal (pp)

EXPsimulator (pp)

1) pp ← GCNlayer. Generate(C, 1λ )
2) (s, w) ← A1 (GCNlayer)
3) π ← P (pp, s, w)
4) b ← A2 (pp, s, w, π)
5) Return b

1) pp ← S1 (C, 1λ )
2) (s, w) ← A1 (GCNlayer)
3) π ← S2 (pp, s)
4) b ← A2 (pp, s, w, π)
5) Return b

5.2 Functionality Comparison and Analysis
To illustrate the properties of zkGCN, we compare some related schemes in Table 2.
In Table 2, we can see that zkGCN is the first ZKP-based integrity verification scheme
for GCN inference. Although there are integrity verification schemes[9, 10, 19, 20],
they just work for the traditional ML training (i.e. CNN, linear and logistic regression)
[19] or NN inference [9, 10, 20]. Wu et al. [3] employ a fingerprint algorithm to verify
whether the GNN model is modified by the cloud service provider. This approach
only probabilistically verifies integrity and cannot guarantee the privacy of the GNN
model. In our zkGCN scheme, the zkSNARK protocol is used to ensure the privacy of
the model and the integrity of the inference process. The completeness and correctness
of the derived results can be verified once by the prover and verifier, respectively.
10

Table 2: Comparison of Different Schemes of Verifiable Machine Learning
Scheme
zkMLaaS[19]
Mystique[20]
vCNN[9]
zkCNN[10]
Wu et al [3]
zkGCN(Ours)

Phase of ML
ML training
NN inference
CNN inference
CNN inference
GNN inference
GCN inference

Method
zk-SNARK
MPC-in-the-Head-based
commit and prove SNARK,
Sumcheck and commit-and-prove SNARK
Node Fingerprint Algorithm
zk-SNARK

Verifiability
#

Privacy

#
G

#
G

#denotes the requirement is not satisfied; G
#denotes the requirement is partially satisfied;
requirement is fully satisfied;

denotes the

6 Experimental Implementation and Evaluation
6.1 Experiment Settings
We selected three graph classification datasets, namely MUTAG, NCI1, and RedditBinary, and the detials of them are shown in Table 3. We conducted experiments
using a single graph as a case study to predict its classification. We implemented the
Groth16 protocol using libsnark[21] to generate and verify integrity proofs for each
layer of the model. All experiments were run on a Thinkpaid laptop with an Intel(R)
Core(TM) i5-8250U CPU and 16 GB of RAM.

Table 3: Datasets Overview
Dataset

Graphs

Classes

Average Nodes

Node Features

MUTAG
RDDIT-BINARY
NCI1

188
2000
4110

2
2
2

17.9
429.61
29.8

7
0
37

6.2 Evaluation and Comparison
This section evaluates the time and storage overhead of zkGCN by inferring individual
graph samples. The time cost of zkGCN includes the setup, proof generation, and
verification stages, while the storage cost includes the size of P K , V K and GCN
model. We also compare these overheads with those of vCNN[9] and zkCNN[10].

6.2.1 Evaluation
Time Overhead: As shown in Fig. 3, the time overhead of zkGCN on the three
datasets. Since the inference phase of GCN models for individual graph data is very
short, we ignore it here. Due to the relatively small average number of nodes per
graph (17.9) on the MUTAG dataset, the circuit design remains simple, resulting in
lower computational overhead. Specifically, the total time cost during the setup phase
is approximately 5.2 seconds, while the proof generation phase requires 4.1 seconds in
11

total. The verification phase completes within 878 ms. On NCI1, the setup phase takes
about 9.4 seconds, the proof generation phase takes about 8 seconds, and the validation
phase takes about 1 second. On REDDIT-BINARY, the setup phase takes about 40
seconds, the proof generation phase takes about 38 seconds, and the validation phase
takes about 1.1 seconds. Due to the average number of nodes per graph in NCI1 being
429.6, the time cost of zkGCN is slightly higher than in NCI and MUTAG, but it is
acceptable for practical situations.

Fig. 3: Time costs of three stages of zkGCN on different graph datasets.

Storage Overhead: Table 4 shows the storage overhead of the GCN model
integrity verification circuit on three datasets. This includes proving the parameter
P K and validating the parameter V K , as well as the size of the model on different
datasets. We represent the size of the model by using the model parameters, assuming that each parameter occupies 4 bytes. For lightweight datasets such as MUTAG
and NCI1, the total storage costs for P K and V K are 2.26 MB and 5.78 MB, respectively. These costs increase linearly with the matrix dimension of the GCN layer, as
the number of arithmetic operations directly affects the complexity of the R1CS circuit. For larger graph classification datasets (RDDIT-BINARY), the overhead will
also increase with the increase of computational complexity. From a practical application perspective, RDDIT-BINARY is a relatively large graph classification dataset,
and these storage requirements are completely feasible and acceptable. For users, they
only need to bear the cost of verifying the key, which is relatively small, proving the
feasibility of the integrity verification scheme based on zk-SNARK in implementing
graph classification tasks.

6.2.2 Comparison
Both vCNN[9] and zkCNN[10] use similar methods with our zkGCN, but zkGCN’s
targets and data structures differ, rendering a comparison of overheads not substantially meaningful. We evaluate the feasibility of our scheme based on the time spent
by the prover, the verifier, and the parameter storage overhead(CRS ). We show the
differences of theses in Table 5. As shown in Table 5, for vCNN, the time spent by
the prover reaches 18 hours and the storage overhead reaches 83 GB for large models (VGG16), which is unacceptable in reality, thus showing relative limitations. For
12

Table 4: The Storage Consumptions of zkGCN over Different
Datasets
Dataset

Layer

Model Size

Total

MUTAG

GCNConv1
ReLU
GCNConv2
GMPooling
FC

511 KB
20 KB
149 KB
28 KB
1.11 MB 318 KB
125 KB
14 KB
13 KB
1 KB

PK

VK

3.38 KB

2.26 MB

NCI1

GCNConv1
ReLU
GCNConv2
GMPooling
FC

3.37 MB 376 KB
193 KB
35 KB
1.40 MB 286 KB
164 KB
19 KB
13 KB
1 KB

3.57 KB

5.78 MB

GCNConv1 15.42 MB 376 KB
ReLU
1.98 MB 376 KB
REDDIT-BINARY GCNConv2 15.42 MB 376 KB
GMPooling
1.73 MB 189 KB
FC
13 KB
1 KB

20.13 KB

35.85 MB

zkCNN, acceptable time overhead is demonstrated even for large models, but the
storage overhead is not stated in the paper, making it immeasurable. For zkGCN,
which targets graph classification tasks, we increase the scale of model integrity verification by enlarging the dataset size. In our experiments, for relatively large graph
classification datasets, both time and storage overheads remain acceptable in practice.

Table 5: Experimental comparison between other schemes
vCNN
Model

Prover

Verifier

CRS

LeNet-5
AlexNet
VGG16

28.81 s
38 min
18 hours

75 ms
130 ms
19.4 s

40.07 MB
2.1 GB
83 GB

Model

Prover

Verifier

CRS

LeNet-5
VGGG11
VGGG16

0.441 s
47.8 s
88.3 s

5.80 ms
39.3 ms
59.3 ms

N/A
N/A
N/A

zkCNN

zkGCN
Dataset

Prover

Verifier

CRS

MUTAG
NCI1
REDDIT-BINARY

9.3 s
17.4 s
78 s

878 ms
1.0 s
1.1 s

2.26 MB
5.78 MB
35.85 MB

13

7 Conclusion
This paper proposes a ZKP-based integrity verification scheme named zkGCN for GCN
inference. zkGCN pioneers strict verification of the GCN inference process without
leaking model parameters, bridging the technological gap in existing solutions for
complex graph data scenarios. Experimental results demonstrate that zkGCN achieves
manageable time and storage overheads in lightweight graph classification. In the
future, more general and efficient ZKP-based verification methods for other GNN
models and inference tasks should be explored.

References
[1] Liang, W., Fan, Y., Li, K., Zhang, D., Gaudiot, J.: Sbbs: A secure blockchainbased scheme for iot data credibility in fog environment. IEEE Internet of Things
Journal 8(11), 9268–9277 (2021)
[2] Liang, W., Fan, Y., Li, K., Zhang, D., Gaudiot, J.: Secure data storage and
recovery in industrial blockchain network environments. IEEE Transactions on
Industrial Informatics 16(10), 6543–6552 (2020)
[3] Wu, B., Yuan, X., Wang, S.: Securing graph neural networks in MLaaS: A
comprehensive realization of query-based integrity verification. In: 2024 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy, SP 2024, pp. 2534–2552. IEEE
[4] Dai, E., Lin, M., Wang, S.: Pregip: Watermarking the pretraining of graph
neural networks for deep intellectual property protection. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.04435 (2024)
[5] Xu, W., Shi, B., Zhang, J., Feng, Z., Pan, T., Dong, B.: Mdp: Privacy-preserving
gnn based on matrix decomposition and differential privacy. In: 2023 IEEE
International Conference on Joint Cloud Computing, pp. 38–45. IEEE
[6] Fan, Y., Lin, X., Liang, W.: A secure privacy preserving deduplication scheme for
cloud computing. Future Generation Computer Systems 101, 127–135 (2019)
[7] Fan, Y., Liu, J., Li, K.-C., Lei, X., Tan, G., Tang, M., et al.: One enhanced secure
access scheme for outsourced data. Information sciences 561, 230–242 (2021)
[8] He, Z., Zhang, T., Lee, R.: Sensitive-sample fingerprinting of deep neural networks. In: IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, CVPR
2019, pp. 4729–4737. IEEE
[9] Lee, S., Ko, H., Kim, J., Oh, H.: vCNN: Verifiable convolutional neural network
based on zk-snarks. IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing
21(4), 4254–4270 (2024)
[10] Liu, T., Xie, X., Zhang, Y.: zkCNN: Zero knowledge proofs for convolutional

14

neural network predictions and accuracy. In: Proceedings of the 2021 ACM
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, CCS 2021, pp.
2968–2985. ACM, New York, USA (2021)
[11] Abbaszadeh, K., Pappas, C., Katz, J., Papadopoulos, D.: Zero-knowledge proofs
of training for deep neural networks. In: 2024 ACM SIGSAC Conference on
Computer and Communications Security, CCS 2024, pp. 4316–4330. ACM
[12] Zhao, L., Wang, Q., Wang, C., Li, Q., Shen, C., Feng, B.: Veriml: Enabling
integrity assurances and fair payments for machine learning as a service. IEEE
Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems 32(10), 2524–2540 (2021)
[13] Sun, H., Bai, T., Li, J., Zhang, H.: zkDL: Efficient zero-knowledge proofs of deep
learning training. IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security 20,
914–927 (2025)
[14] Wang, B., Guo, J., Li, A., Chen, Y., Li, H.: Privacy-preserving representation learning on graphs: A mutual information perspective. In: The 27th ACM
SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, KDD 2021, pp.
1667–1676. ACM
[15] Wang, S., Zheng, Y., Jia, X.: SecGNN: Privacy-preserving graph neural network training and inference as a cloud service. IEEE Transactions on Services
Computing 16(4), 2923–2938 (2023)
[16] Petkus, M.: Why and how zk-snark works. CoRR abs/1906.07221 (2019)
1906.07221
[17] Groth, J.: On the size of pairing-based non-interactive arguments. In: 35th Annual
International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic
Techniques, EUROCRYPT 2016, pp. 305–326. Springer
[18] Zhao, L., Wang, Q., Wang, C., Li, Q., Shen, C., Feng, B.: VeriML: Enabling
integrity assurances and fair payments for machine learning as a service. IEEE
Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems 32(10), 2524–2540 (2021)
[19] Huang, C., Wang, J., Chen, H., Si, S., Huang, Z., Xiao, J.: zkMLaaS: a verifiable scheme for machine learning as a service. In: IEEE Global Communications
Conference, GLOBECOM 2022, pp. 5475–5480. IEEE
[20] Parthiban, E.S., Adil, M.: Seeing through the mystique surrounding the tasktechnology-organization fit: A mixed-method exploration of consumers’ intention
to use banking conversational agents. Communications of the Association for
Information Systems 55, 17 (2024)
[21] scipr-lab: libsnark: C++ library for zkSNARKs. https://github.com/scipr-lab/
libsnark. Accessed: 2025-03-05 (2014)

15

